*Before getting started with sales, you should have read the [[Marketing brief]]; this will help you understand what Wiredcraft does and who we work with.*

## Overview

We are a small consulting shop working on cutting-edge technology for top brands. This reflects in our approach to sales:

- **Our client network is personal**; by this we mean that almost every single lead was brought from a personal connection (as of now it is still mostly coming out of Ronan's network).
- **Targeted outbound rather than "catch all" inbound**; while we are in the process of investing more in middle to long term marketing to generate more inbound leads, our approach so far has been to aggressively reach out to specific clients and connections we think are a good fit.
- **We pitch and deliver high quality services**; we never settle for low quality, and only accept lower margins in the case of an up-sale (for [devo.ps](http://devo.ps) for example) or when the contract will fund research and development for a piece of software we need (DCMS for example).

## Sales leads

As stated previously, we are not yet relying much on inbound leads (which is a middle to long term game mostly relying on marketing and our online/offline reputation). This will come, but for now we rely heavily on outbound sales and marketing technique to acquire new business. Almost all of our sales are coming from the following scenario:

1. **Identify leads: focus your effort**. We are more often than not referred by previous clients or members of our network (friends, people who've worked alongside with us on a contract...), although we sometimes reach out to new potential leads on our own. Given the nature of our work (niche skills and clients), our energies goes towards clients we already know have a strong fit on cultural, technical and quality (thus value) levels. There is no single rule, but we often look for companies that our competitors and partners are engaged with (World Bank, WRI...), or organizations we feel inspired by (Apple, CNN...).
1. **Establish trust: pitching our technical chops**. At this step, things are almost always the same; you need to sell our team's technical capabilities through mentioning our portfolio (Southern Sudan, UN, WB, CNN...) and cutting-edge technology we use (GIS, Javascript, NoSQL, DevOps...). You'll need to find the right balance depending on the audience. Obviously if you're meeting with a lead engineer, sell our opinions with regards to development methodology and technology, if you're dealing with a manager you may have more luck selling our methodology and list of clients.
1. **Close: entertaining the relationship until the next opportunity**. A lot of our clients have either unpredictable or long sales cycles (respectively startups/technical teams and large organizations). More often than not, your contact will simply go back to his current responsibilities. It may take months before the right opportunity for us to work together; keep these contacts close and regularly check on them through IM or email. Obviously, the closer the relationship the better. You never know where the next contract will be coming from; keep all channels open.

## A few more tips...

- **Social hacking**: use tools that are available out there to do background checks on people and reach out to people. You can easily use things like Twitter, email, Google or LinkedIn to figure out what somebody's contact is. It is then up to you to find the right angle, but you often can get a lunch with the CEO or CTO of a well know startup, or the account manager of a major organization by simply finding the right angle and sending an email or a Tweet.
- **Value hubs**: some people may not be able to directly bring us deals, but they have the ability to introduce us to somebody who does. Always value relationships with people who are well connected and have fitting values: over a long enough period of time, it's almost sure they'll come to you with an interesting couple intros.
- **Establish a personal connection**: **always** start with establishing a relationship with people. If you're introducing yourself through an email, thoroughly research the person and find something we're aligned with or something they could share with you. If you're being introduced to somebody, let them talk first, ask questions, try to understand who they are and what they do. Use this to tune how you will introduce yourself afterwards.
- **Know your audience, don't waste their time**: again, thorough background checks are "de rigueur". Depending on who you're talking, and especially in case of cold calling/emailing, do not go on for paragraphs about our company or how you'd like to "catch coffee sometime". Open up with an interesting statement (hoepfully about your interlocutor) and then get to the point, quickly.
- **Be aggressive, be confident**: most people out there have no freaking idea of what they do. They don't wake up one day with a diploma in kicking asses at sales and marketing. They just figure things out and get stuff done. Every single one of them. Even the most successful sales people just started with no idea of what to do. They just confidently put themselves out there, trying different things, learning from their mistakes and trying overall to understand what it is that they think will work. It's a process. Understand as well that you have an advantage over the overwhelming majority of teams out there; we have a fantastic portfolio and a track record on delivering. Our team is exceptionally bright and will be there to help you out.